# lithospheric_strength_envelopes
I wrote a Jupyter notebook to perform lithospheric modeling to calculate strength envelopes depicted in Escosa et al., 2023 (see Fig. 16b) that represent three lithospheric domains identified in Southern Angola (i.e., Archean, Paleoproterozoic and Neoproterozoic, Fig. 16a).
The used programming language is Python and the Jupyter notebook is intended to be self-explanatory detailing step-by-step the process followed during the lithospheric modelling. The code is based on a previous project carried out by Marcos A. Lopez-Sanchez from the University of Oviedo (Spain) called Strength Envelopes aiming at building strength envelopes for the earth’s lithosphere (see the original code in https://github.com/marcoalopez/strength_envelopes). 
The input data and model set-up are sourced from the properties of each lithospheric domain listed in Table 2. They are obtained from a bibliographical review complemented with field observations of the Precambrian geology of southern Angola. The strength envelopes are computed assuming a power-law creep approximation which benefits from a list of experimentally derived values (obtained from Lopez-Sanchez, M.A.) defining quartz and olivine flow laws for modeling the crust and lithospheric mantle, respectively. The used power-law creep equation assumes steady-state creep, low to moderate stress regimes (<2 GPa, those expected to operate in the lithosphere), a constant strain rate of 10-15 s-1, and the effects of pressure, grain size, water content and partial melt are ignored. The modeling also assumes a three-layer crust overlying a single-layer lithospheric mantle. For each modelled scenario, we used the flow laws that more realistically approximate to the compositional and thermal properties of the studied lithospheric domains. For the Archean, we used parameters of dry olivine for the lithospheric mantle (Ohuchi et al., 2015). For the Paleoproterozoic, we used parameters of dry quartz in the felsic crust (Gleason and Tullis, 1995) and wet olivine in the lithospheric mantle (Ohuchi et al., 2015); and for the Neoproterozoic domains, we used parameters of wet quartz in the felsic crust (Gleason and Tullis, 1995) wet anorthite in the mafic lower crust (Rybacki and Dresen, 2000) and wet olivine in the lithospheric mantle (Ohuchi et al., 2015).
The strength profiles are complemented with the calculation of the geothermal gradients and frictional strength slopes for each type of lithospheric domain. The used thermal equation is based on the Turcotte and Schubert (1982) model assuming that temperature only varies as a function of depth (not in time; i.e., steady-state geotherm), heat is transferred by conduction, the temperature gradient depends on heat conduction, the production of heat is independent of depth and due to the radioactive decay of the minerals present in the crust and lithospheric mantle. The frictional strength slopes are calculated with different angles of internal friction (Ф) and based on the Anderson theory of faulting (Anderson, 1905) and the Coulomb-Navier’s law of friction.
